---
title: "Manual Spam Tutorial for Link Building on radio4000.com (and 500+ Other Services)"
date: 2024-11-07
---

> **Note**: This is not a tutorial for spam.

For many years, [radio4000.com](https://radio4000.com) has faced
issues with spam—fake users creating fake radio stations. You may have
come across radio profiles for services like botox clinics, spa
massages, and other local businesses, which lack track lists and
contain only links to their websites and exhaustive descriptions of
their services.

# Our Spam Problem
We wish these were real users sharing their favorite tracks and media
selections. Unfortunately, they remain empty profiles, cluttering the
experience for genuine users. None of these profiles offer real
content (such as tracks or curated radio channels) or utilize the
service in a meaningful way (like displaying a radio playlist in a
physical space to showcase a curated list of audio or video).

It's especially frustrating because spam is highly visible compared to
the number of new users on our site, which makes it noticeable when
browsing our "community pages."

We’ve tried to understand the issue by examining our database to see
which users were creating this spam content, and if any scripts were
automating the process. We couldn’t identify a clear pattern, although
each user profile appeared generic and unofficial (e.g.,
samsmith123@gmail.com, localservice3456@gmail.com).

Our guess was that someone was using the site as a platform for [link
building](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Link_building) to work on
[search engine optimization
(SEO)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Search_engine_optimization)
through [spamdexing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spamdexing).

It’s now official (or has been since two years ago when this video was
first posted): there is a tutorial video for manual spam.

{{< rawhtml >}}
<iframe width="100%" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LuS6OyJIyiM?si=5dmb4sSpQJVW0YXC"
title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer;
autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope;
picture-in-picture; web-share"
referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin"
allowfullscreen></iframe>
{{< /rawhtml >}}

> **Tutorial for manual spamming and link building on Radio4000.com
> (and other services)**

A company named `Link Foundation`, through their [LF Tutorial System
YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@lftutorialsystem3657),
offers a tutorial on how to manually spam over 561 different services.

# Affected services
You [can check if a service is affected by spam by browsing their
YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@lftutorialsystem3657/videos)
and searching manually for its name.

It appears that affected websites are relatively small/medium projects
(or instances of projects like Mastodon, etc.), where SEO may be
especially strong due to low user numbers and quality content.

# What Now?
With the release of radio4000 v2, we implemented (h)captcha
requirements for new user registration and login. This is quite
annoying (for both users and developers) and totally ineffective
against our current spam issue. The spam is non-automated and
performed manually by people who even create tutorials for each other
and get paid for it.

We still don’t have a clear idea on how to "clean up this mess,"
remove all existing spam from the database, or prevent new spam from
appearing. Once we stop the influx (if that’s even possible), we can
work on cleaning up, but first we need a way to prevent new spam or a
system to "filter out this noise."

We’ve considered a "[social verification
system](https://lobste.rs/about#invitations)" like the one displayed
on the "featured radios" page.

We’ve also thought about a monetary incentive to be listed on the
[/explore](https://radio4000.com/explore) page. If there’s no default
link to a radio page, there’s no incentive for users to create a
profile solely for a "backlink" to their website.

# Product Notes
As nice as it is to have such good user experience feedback with a
video, the need for a tutorial might indicate that our site's user
experience needs more clarity. (@TODO: Make it clearer how to create a
channel and post new tracks.)

# Additional Notes
If you have a project to promote or services to offer new clients,
[you're welcome to create a new Radio4000 radio
channel](https://radio4000.com/new) (even if you’re generated by a
language model, contrary to what’s outlined in [our
manifesto](https://github.com/radio4000/publications/blob/main/radio4000-manifest.md)). But
please, try to [add real tracks you enjoy or
use](https://radio4000.com/add) to your radio or follow [other radio
channels you
enjoy](https://radio4000.com/explore?search=jazz&orderBy=updated_at&limit=100&order=desc&page=1).
